This is a skeleton for CS 111 Lab 1.

Replace this README file with notes on your implementation.
Mentions any special features or limitations.

CS LAB 1 Part B
Mrinal Chawla - 004273708
Dylan Hoang - 604268191

The file read-command.c is divided into two main functions make_command_stream and read_command_stream.

Make_command_stream takes in user input, and produces a linked list of pointers to 
command trees. 

Read_command_stream traverses this linked list, returning one command tree
at a time for the program’s print function.

Make_command_stream is divided into two parts.

The first part constructs a valid buffer while error checking. If the program passes this
first part, that means all checks have been validated, and the program can proceed to construct
the linked list.

	The buffer is constructed by using the get_next_byte function to receive one character at a 
	time. For error checking, the function uses a multitude of bool flags and index placeholders
	to check if certain characters can correctly follow others etc.

	Specific attention here should be called to the handling of newline characters. If there was one
	it was to be replaced with the sequential command ;, but if there was a sequence it was to be replaced
	with a \n. Finally, if these were at the start or end of the file, nothing was to be added.

	Also, since the second part requires all operators to be of length single character, this buffer
	construction algorithm replaces || with { and removes repetitive whitespace and only includes
	significant newlines. 

The second part uses the constructed buffer to construct the linked list of command trees.

	The algorithm used here is a modified version of the infix to postfix algorithm used for handling
	operator precedence. There are two stacks, a command and an operator stack. Here is the pseudocode
	of the algorithm:

	Two stacks are created. One holds the char value of operators, which are definied as ;,
	&&, ||, |, (, ). These operators are assigned a precedence value. | has the highest
	precedence. &&, || have equal precedence less than |. ; has the lowest precedence. 
	NOTE: When the stack is handling the operators, all operators are represented with
	a single char. && is represented as & and || is represented as {. The second stack
	holds command structs of simple commands. When the algorithm runs into a character
	that is not an operator, there are several steps it can take. If it is a redirection
	operator ( < or >) the top command in the command stack is assigned an output or input
	value as appropriate. If it is word, then a 2 dimensonal array of characters is
	generated (each word following is added to the array until an operator is found). 
	This array is used to generate a simple command, which is pushed onto the command 
	stack. If it is a space, the character is ignored. If it is a newline or an EOF
	character, a node is generated (More details below). If the algorithm finds an operator
	then a stack handling function is called. This function pops off all operators off the
	operator stack which have higher precedence then the current operator. For each operator
	popped, two commands are popped. These commands are used to generate an operator specific
	command, and are assigned as the children to the operator command. This command is then 
	pushed onto the command stack. Once the top operator on the stack has a lower precedence 
	than the current operator, or the stack is empty, then the current operator is pushed. 
	There are some special cases. If the current operator is a (, then it is pushed onto 
	the operator stack. If it is a ) then operators are popped until a matching ( is found. 
	The same two command pop process is followed. Once the stack is handled, the function
	returns. After a newline is found in the input, then a new node is created. This
	involves calling a function called finish_stack which consolidates whatever is left
	on the two stacks into a single command. This command is then set as the root of the 
	node. The node is then added to the command stream, which is a linked list of command 
	nodes (each node has a pointer to the next). Once the entire input has been processed, 
	The stream that is generated is returned. 
	
	When processing this stream, the members of the stream are used extensively. A cursor
	is assigned at the head of the stream. Every time read_command_stream is called, the
	root of the node which the cursor points to is returned. Then the cursor is incremented 
	to the next node. At the end, the cursor is set to NULL. 


execute-command.c:

This file's implementation allows for the execution of commands. There is a switch statement in the main
function, which checks each command's type. If the command is a simple command, it orchastrates a call to
execvp which will execute the command. If the command is an operator, the function recursively calls itself
on the children of the command in order to traverse the command tree. There are also some error checks
implemented, which deal with the errors of forking processes and aliasing stdin and stdout for i/o 
redirection. Also, logic is checked as well. For example, if the left side of an && command failes to execute
then the right side is not executed. If the left side of an || command executes, then the right side is not 
executed. A sequence command uses the blocking implementation of waitpid to execute from right to left. A 
pipe command uses dup2 twice to set up the i/o correctly. The final version of the project is made to mimic
the behaviour of the sh command. 





Special Notes:
-program only needs to traverse the user input twice. Once to create a valid buffer and error check, and another time, 
traversing that buffer to produce a valid linked list of trees. 
-the stack algorithm required reference from groups.csail.mit.edu/graphics/classes/6.837/F04/cpp_notes/stack1.html
Limitations:
every string of word commands is limited by 100 in length
the stack size of the commands and operators is limited to 100 in length
does not handle subshell precedence like sh command does.

